Ready?
The Mary Lincoln part of it, Justin Turner and his daughter-in-law wrote The Life and Letters of Mary Todd Lincoln.
And what it is, I can see it on the shelf right there.
They located almost every letter that Mary Lincoln wrote that they could find.
There were over 600 letters.
And put it together in a book.
And did the research on it.
You could read the inscription, what they wrote to me.
Well, I want to come out with a book like that for $15 in the morning.
For Louise Cooper, who knows more about Lincoln than we do.
That was years ago.
With much affection.
And these are the authors.
Justin Turner and Luther Turner.
Who knows more about Lincoln than we do.
So then I became obsessed with how collectors collected, Lincoln collectors.
I had other items, and I sold them, and I kept just a few things, but mostly everything is Lincoln, and I got rid of all the trivia that wasn't Lincoln-related.
And then I decided I wanted to have the greatest Lincoln collection ever, but I wanted every phase.
At what point did you decide that it was possible to do this?
Probably about, what, three, four years ago?
Three?
Something like that.
Because everyone in the Lincoln world was thrilled that someone was so focused on Lincoln and a woman.
So everyone came to me, and it was fabulous.
And I happened to luck out and pick up a ton of things by private people.
Very lucky.
The booth started where a dealer called me and said, you once asked me to find you something unique about women, because you're a woman collector, and there aren't that many women collectors, and I don't know about any Lincoln women collectors.
Well, you're probably the only one.
And so...
she had this mary surat letter so i said to her how do you know it's mary surat and she said by the content well come on anyone content i want to know by the writing first so i called springfield and i asked tom schwartz how would i authenticate a mary surat letter and he said there's a surat society so then i phoned them and before you knew it we became good friends and
She led me to all these Boothies and Surat people, and it took about three weeks of working day and night, every day, and I finally got it authenticated, and everyone was thrilled about it because it was the only one in private hands, so I bought it.
Well, then later on I get a phone call from one of my contacts, and they said that there was a group of love letters written by John Wilkes Booth,
unknown woman unknown romance nine months before the president was assassinated and a woman in denver had them for sale and offered them to ford's theater and they couldn't afford to buy it was i interested well yes i was because they were love letters i was curious so i phoned the woman and we started talking and she said all these dealers called her up it's been passed down in her family
And there were signed cart-to-visits from Booth.
She has everything.
It was her great-grandmother.
And she was told to save them for a rainy day.
And if they ever needed money, sell them.
And it was a rainy day because in Denver, property went.
And she needed the money.
So I said, has anyone flown out there?
And she said, no.
So I got on a plane.
I said, can I come see you?
And the next day, I was on a plane with my husband.
And we went out there.
And we looked at them, and we had till 2 in the afternoon to make our deal because if we didn't, she wanted cash, so the money had to be wired, transferred.
We didn't make a deal.
Not cash, but she wanted a cashier's check, and I couldn't take one because we didn't agree on the price.
So we left.
Three days later, I called her.
We spoke again.
We agreed on it.
The reason she sold it to me, she said, more than anyone else, was dealers only wanted the Booth letters.
They wanted nothing about her great-grandmother.
I looked at it and said, oh my God, this is a book.
And I'm in the process of writing the book now with John Roadhamel, who's the curator of American Manuscripts at the Huntington.
And the book will have the love letters in it.
Tell me a little bit about the book.
The book will be...
I don't really want to talk about the poster.
I better wait, but the letters will be in the book.
Well, generally speaking, it's about Lincoln, or it's... Booth.
John Wilkes Booth.
A book about John Wilkes Booth.
Because I acquired the letters, so then you have to learn about the girl, about John Wilkes, and I met so many people that I started buying John Wilkes Booth letters privately.
And I have everything on the girl.
I have photographs of her.
I have letters of her.
I have lots of hair of her.
Now this is Surat, right?
No, no.
This is this unknown girl.
Nothing to do with Surat.
But do you have any idea who she is?
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
And you'll reveal this in the book.
In the book.
It'll be in the book.
And so then I met all these booth people and started buying booths.
Not really wanting to collect assassination.
I never wanted to.
So once you've bought John Wilkes, then you have to get all the others.
Why didn't you want to collect assassination?
I liked family and Abraham Lincoln and the happy parts.
But you said you wanted to collect Lincoln and all the facets of his life.
Right, so that's what evolved.
And then when you get into assassination, I have another wanted poster, the original...
small one for the, was it the $30,000 reward.
Then I bought Boston Corbett, then I bought Samuel Arnold, then I bought, and I start, I have carte de visites of, oh God, who else, Harold, all of them.
And then with the carte de visites, I have signed carte de visites in most of Lincoln's cabinet.
But then getting back to the assassination,
led me to all these booth people, so then I would go and tour the booth sites, and got involved in all of that.
Then, when John and I were working on the book, I heard that a private booth theater museum was going up for auction.
The auction was held in Kennebunk, Maine.
That's before Kennebunk Port.
And I flew there.
I had a secretary at the time, and she went with me.
And my husband couldn't go, and I went, really, to read the manuscripts to see if the Booths talked about this young girl.
Well, it ended up, not many people showed up for the auction.
And I was dying because I thought, how could they break up all this Booth family material?
So I bought, I bought a third of the auction, didn't I?
Or half?
And all the stuff, probably.
You haven't seen any of the stuff.
The costume.
But I mean, you bought it all.
I bought it all.
I bought, well, first I wanted one painting, and it started, the option started, and they started, they estimated one of the paintings 15, 8, 10 to 15,000, or 15 to 20,000.
And they started the bidding.
Who'll give me $15,000?
No one answered.
So the guy goes backwards.
Who'll give me $14,000, $13,000, $12,000?
And this whole group is just sitting there.
Who'll give me $1,000?
There's no reserve.
This man let his things be consigned to an option with no reserve.
So then he says, who'll give me $250?
Oh, my God.
I'm going to put my paddle up.
So I ended up buying all the painting.
And the poor man, we had dinner, I had dinner with him that night.
That's a disservice to that.
I'm thrilled for you.
I feel the man was cheated.
It went to the right place.
You know, I mean, let's face it, it's a blessing with respect to the fact that everything is kept together, but I feel terribly for this guy for anxiety, for this place up in Kennebunk, Maine.
Oh, it was awful.
He really took a beating.
Then I called my husband and I said, things are going really cheap.
And he says, well, what do you want?
And I said, I only want...
1865 or earlier, and I only want any of the Booth family.
I don't want Sarah Bernhardt, and I don't want any of the other theater things.
So I ended up getting Mary Devlin, who was the first wife of Edwin Booth.
And Edwin Booth, I got Junius Brutus Booth the father.
I got Junius Brutus Booth the son.
I bought every single Booth playbill.
I probably have, what, 75 playbills of Junius,
And I also, I forget how many I have of John Wilkes.
And just sat there when the auction started.
And I called my husband.
I said, you know what?
It's bombing.
He says, just buy anything you want.
So I did.
And were you unknown to the auctioneers?
They heard.
You must have been quite a cause celeb coming in, this mystery lady, and buying up the whole show.
Yeah, they wrote about it.
It was in the antique...
Main Antique Digest, there were five pages on it.
This lady from Beverly Hills, and then went on and on.
And then I bought, recently, this past year, I will never do this again, we went to an auction in Chicago, and they had a letter written by the man that was doing part of The Undertaker, that did the imbaming, not the imbaming, that did
Yeah, was it the embalming?
Moses Sanford.
And Moses Sanford writes, do you want to show him the letter?
Because there's a piece of the shirt that came off of Lincoln.
And the reason I had to buy that letter was that the letter talked about the cufflinks.
And I had one of the cufflinks.
So that was one letter in the auction.
And what was the other letter?
On banking.
Lincoln talks about banking.
And it's a fabulous letter on banking.
So I had to have that letter.
So they were lot 120-something, and we get to the auction very early, and my husband wants to go shopping.
And I said, then go.
He says, we'll be back before it comes up.
It's going to be an hour and a half.
I said, I'm not going.
If the cab breaks down, forget it.
I'm obsessed with it.
So he leaves.
45 minutes later, it comes up.
And I didn't know what to do.
And a dealer bid against me.
There was a lot of bidding.
and this dealer started bidding against me and i just i kept the panel up became obsessed and bought that so they wrote about that chicago so i bought the moses sanford and i bought the letter on banking and what else one of my other famous pieces we bought the barry and i got the norton letter which is the letter that lincoln wrote saying that
when he lost the Senate race, and he tells his feelings, and he just pours his heart out.
And Mark Neely, have you heard about Mark Neely?
He's with the Lincoln National, what is it, the Lincoln, Life, whatever, it's the Lincoln.
I'm kind of new to Lincoln studies.
He says it's the finest Lincoln letter ever.
This?
No, the other one, the Norton letter that is in the big red case.
We have that.
Has it been...
Printed anywhere?
The Norton letter, they wrote it up in Lincoln lore.
In Lincoln lore, right?
Yeah.
That sounds like quite a letter where he discusses how he feels.
Yeah, sure.
Well, which do you want to see first?
The greatest Lincoln letter ever, huh?
You know, can you get the type script?
Sure.
I'll show you.
And maybe of the Norton one, too.
Oh, you know what?
The Norton one's in here.
But it's... And at the end it says... I think I have all the... I think it's Jesse Norton.
Can you bring the backup on the Norton, Andrea?
Shut up.
Jesse Norton.
It's 16 February.
You've had these cases made, I gather.
Yeah, because then when you do... Let's see, that's...
close the sides of it.
But then this lifts up and goes... Oh, so you can display it.
Isn't that wonderful?
What is... This is... Oh, that's for that.
But this one... For the Norton letter?
Yeah, the Norton one is... Is this something I could get a copy of at some point?
Do you mind?
Or is that...
Is that something you could... Yeah, because it's published.
Andrea, I'm going to give you my card.
Yeah, then we could get you a clean copy.
Great.
Honorable J.O.
Norton, my dear sir, this is February 16, 1855.
I have now been beaten one day over a week, and I'm very happy to find myself quite convalescent.
Your kind letter of the 20th January I did not receive till the day before yesterday, owing...
I suppose, to our great snowstorm.
The day after the election, I wrote Washburn, the particulars, tolerably, fully, through the untiring efforts of friends, among whom yourself and Washburn were chief.
I finally surmounted the difficulty with the extreme anti-slavery men, and I got all their votes, love joys included.
Cook, Judd, and Palmer, and Baker of Alton were the men who never could vote for a Whig, and without the votes of two
of whom I never could reach the requisite number to make an election.
I do not mean that I actually got within two votes of the required number, but I easily enough could have done so, provided I could have assured my friends that two of the above named four would go for me.
In this connection, it is necessary to bear in mind that your Senator Osgood, together with Don Morrison, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
It was Governor Madison's maneuvering that forced upon me, my friends, the necessity of surrendering to Trumbull.
So he turned his votes to Trumbull, and Trumbull became the senator, right?
Wasn't that it?
He made his first successful hit by tampering.
It's a very long letter.
When you read it, it's an incredible letter.
Has there been anything that you've really wanted that you've lost?
No.
not really no no no i haven't have i no no because if you want something you'll you'll pay anything for it if you have to um i thought that was going to be the answer by the way okay let me just find you okay this is he's saying
Dear friend Johnny, you must excuse me for not writing you before.
B-E-F-O-R.
But as the old saying says, better late than never.
So here goes.
I hardly think a letter from this city, especially at this time and from an old friend, will be apt to be thrown to one side and forgotten.
I also send you enclosed in this letter a piece of the shirt bosom worn by the president on the night of his murder and remained on him until he died.
I wish you to give a piece of it to Billy Deaver and Tom Green.
I could sell every inch of it for $5, but prefer dividing it among my friends, and more especially you, Billy and Tom, for I know you will keep and appreciate it also.
Remember the donor, and while looking upon it, recollect that he never forgets his old and true friends.
I have his necktie and would not take $50 for it.
Have been offered $10 for it several times.
I suppose you'd like to know how I came by his clothes.
Is this incredible?
Well, the morning he died, General Rucker came immediately to our shop and had a common pine box made to bring him from 10th Street to the White House.
And after they arrived at the house, there's no period, so it just rambles, to the house, they cut his clothes off of him and threw them in the box we made and sent the box back to the shop for safekeeping.
It was placed in my charge in my room, the hardware department, and just as soon as the coast was clear, I unscrewed the lid and went through the wardrobe for relics.
I found on one of the sleeves of his shirts one of his sleeve buttons, black enamel, trimmed with gold and letter L on the outside with AL underneath that I sent to the Secretary of War.
The bosom of his shirt was the next thing which met my eye as it had considerable blood upon it.
So I just confiscated the whole of the piece.
I send you and another about the same size as all I have left.
The necktie I wouldn't part with under any consideration.
I've taken all the screws out of the box which were turned down on him from 10th to his house and have put others in their place.
I will give you one when I come home.
The box he was brought up in is within five feet of my desk where I'm now writing.
Don't forget to give them da-da-da.
Then he talks about the murder, where it took place.
And he goes all about the body.
And who is this again?
His name was Moses Sanford.
And he worked in the... He wrote the letter to whom?
He wrote the letter to his friend Johnny.
Dear friend Johnny.
And the interesting thing is that the pocket contents
he gave to Stanton.
Stanton gave them to Mary Lincoln.
Mary Lincoln ended up giving one of the cufflink buttons away, which is the one I have.
The rest of the contents stayed.
Then Robert had them in Hildene.
Robert's great-granddaughter, Mary Beckwith, donated the contents of the pockets to the Library of Congress, and that's how they got the rest of it.
Did you have any idea when you started this about 18 years ago that you would become a Lincoln scholar?
No.
Because you are a Lincoln scholar.
Never.
The true collector does become a scholar, by the way.
Do you agree with that?
Yes.
You have to.
To know your collection.
To know your collection and if you're spending a lot of money.
I like putting things together.
One of the unique things that I did was I bought...
deed that was okay Abraham Lincoln died you know we should get the deed out the deed was in Robert Lincoln's hand it was a quick claim and it he filled it out he wrote Mary Lincoln widow of Abraham Lincoln deceased and what it was is he Robert paid her $500 for this lot in Lincoln Illinois and
I bought this whole deed.
She signed it, and Robert signed it, and it's in Robert's writing.
So I love this deed, and I had been to Lincoln.
I go there because there's Lincoln College, and my husband's now a trustee on the college board.
And I took a picture of the spot where the lot had been, and it's a Sherwin-Williams paint shop with a plaque on the side saying this was owned by Abraham Lincoln.
And one day a dealer calls me up, and he offers me a Lincoln check.
And I said, well, you know, I have several.
I really don't need any more checks.
And he says, well, think about it.
I said, who is the check to and how much is it for?
And he says, it's to a J.G.
Madison, M-A-T-T-E-S-O-N, for $200.
And I said, well, let me call you back.
So I called.
I'm very close friends with Jim Hickey, who was the curator before Tom Schwartz, and he was curator for 30 years.
I called Jim Hickey and I said, you know, someone just offered me this check.
He says, who?
I said, J.G.
Madison.
He says, that was the governor of Illinois.
I said, it's for $200.
He says, oh my God, that's the prim note.
That's your deed.
I said, what do you mean?
What do you mean?
What happens was that this man named Prim wanted to buy that lot.
But even going further back, the people of Lincoln formed this town.
Wow.
And they asked Abraham Lincoln to do the legal work.
He wrote all the papers up to form the town, and he left the name open.
And he said, you didn't give me the name of the town.
They said, we want to call it Lincoln, Illinois.
So he filled it in.
Later on, this man, Prim, came to Lincoln.
Lincoln loaned money to people all the time, and he got good interest, 10%.
So he said, Prim wanted to borrow money.
So Lincoln says, all right, I'll loan you $200.
The lot was $400.
Governor Madison loaned the man for $200.
So Prim owned the lot and owed $400.
Came time to pay it.
Prim couldn't pay it.
So that meant that Lincoln and Madison became the owners of the lot.
Well, Lincoln didn't want a partner.
So this is the check that Lincoln wrote for the $200 to Governor Madison so Lincoln could own the lot.
And then later on, Mary deeded it over to Roberts,
11 days after Robert had it deeded to him, he sold it for $1,100.
He was a pretty smart businessman.
What do you hope to accomplish with the collection?
I mean, do you still have a goal for the collection?
Well, I have almost all the ancestors going back five generations.
I have the great-grandfather,
I have the uncles, great-uncles.
I have almost all of them, don't I?
Descendants.
I've gotten all the descendants, every single one of them.
I have the grandson.
I have them all.
You mean you have documents that relate to them?
That they wrote.
I have a watercolor that one of the granddaughters did.
um i feel i got every phase of his life before and after and even to robert todd lincoln beckwith who was the last in the line um he's the one that owned that piece a lot of the artifacts came through him um what else what are your
My goals are, I looked up all the leading Lincoln collectors and saw how many letters they had.
I counted with Justin Turner how many Lincoln letters Justin had, and I passed him up in Abraham Lincoln letters, so I got excited about that.
How many letters did you say?
Oh, I can't.
I don't want to be quoted, so I won't.
A lot.
And then, with the Mary Lincoln, I am...
five away of passing just enough and he really had the largest mary lincoln collection ever um so there's a competition here in your mind yeah i mean you want to be number one right now i tom says tom schwartz says that i have the largest lincoln collection in private hands and the largest unpublished
collection which will basically soon be published probably because i i i like to share what i have i feel that if it's unpublished you know people some dealers will say it's worth more money if it's not published i disagree i think if it's published and known then you know they can't say well where did you get it you know there's no doubt about it yeah well then then the question is it may be it may be worth more money but but you're doing a disservice to scholarship exactly
I mean, if it's important to know what you have and what you're keeping it, like Folger was that way with his Shakespeare stuff.
He wouldn't let anybody get to see his thing.
Then I got obsessed with anything with Lincoln's friends.
I have letters of all his friends.
The Lincolns had a child named Eddie, and Eddie was named after Edward Baker.
And Eddie died before he was four years old in Springfield.
and baker died at balls bluff and the baker's son-in-law son and there were three baker relatives that wanted an appointment and they wrote to lincoln and i love the way lincoln would write things i own all three of the letters uh he would write i really think that this person deserves to have this position he goes and then he ends it i want this done
so you didn't have a choice he was short and he was to the point and so i bought all of those um what else would be interesting of what i well i was thinking about terms of personal things that the relationship between mary and her son robert and some of the fiery stuff that went on after she was institutionalized right okay i i became obsessed with mary too um
she i bought a letter that that was like one of the most famous letters that she wrote and it said um this is four days after she was declared sane and she writes robert t lincoln give me back my diamonds my laces my moses and the bulrushes and all these things that you and your wife appropriated for me
And my preacher friends are praying for your soul and for the wicked deed you did to your mother.
And she goes on and on.
She signs it, Mrs. A. Lincoln.
Well, I hated Robert after that.
Well, as I got more involved in living in Springfield and spending a lot of time there and doing a lot of research, they have, it was found in Hilding, which was Robert Lincoln's home, letterpress books.
and there's probably 25 30 letters it's like everything from like 1860 till he died and you go through it and i've started reading them and i always hated robert and everyone there loves him and they said if you start reading them you'll realize why well it was explained to me that even though i love mary and i'm defending her as a woman when robert got the letter robert was so organized he thought
diamonds and laces wait a minute Robert saved everything he'd go pull the letter out and it would be from his mother Robert go into this trunk that's in such and such place and you can have this for you and your wife take this painting take this thing so then when he gets this letter he can't understand why she's doing that plus I just bought a letter that he wrote to Gideon Wells secretary of the Navy
And he says it's in 1870.
It's right at the time she's in the institution, which was a beautiful private sanitarium in Batavia.
And he says, my mother is at more peace than ever.
She's rested.
She's happy.
She's wonderful.
I visit her all the time.
So you see, it's like, hey, who do you believe?
But you've taken the extra step.
You've gone to find the other part of the correspondence.
Yeah.
Even though you can't have it.
I mean, you can't own it, right?
I bought it.
I got that letter.
Oh, you got the other part.
Oh, yes.
Oh, I thought you just went to read it.
No, I bought it.
I bought it.
No, I buy them.
I buy everything I can get.
Now, why do you have the place in Springfield to go and research, though?
I made so many friends, and I love the people of Illinois.
Justin trained me and said, Illinois is home, and you'll see why.
And the more you get involved in Lincoln, the more you will like the people.
But, I mean, you go there to do research, I gather.
No, I have so many friends.
They're like family now.
I go there to be with them, too.
Plus...
There's Lincoln College board meetings four times a year, and now I have board meetings for the things I'm involved in, and I have friends there.
So it's my place to relax.
But the apartment then became obsessed with that.
The apartment is in a building that was called the St.
Nicholas Hotel, that was a famous hotel at the time of Lincoln.
And Lincoln sat for the Jones bus, that's the Jones bus, the white one there, in that hotel.
So my apartment, the entry hall of my apartment, is part of the original building.
So, you know, the building was for sale.
We tried to buy that, but there was a problem, so we couldn't get that.
I'm obsessed.
Do you feel, after all this, that you're closer to Lincoln, that you know him, that when you pick up one of his letters, is there some kind of communion with him?
I mean, is that kind of stretching you a little bit, do you think?
I think... Well, define the obsession, then.
You say you're obsessed.
Well, I enjoy it.
I do it day and night.
I wake up in the morning and work on it all day, gentlemen.
Every day.
And what is the obsession?
To know Lincoln or to have Lincoln?
Or to have the finest collection of Lincoln?
I guess it became everything that you're saying.
It just kind of evolved, didn't it?
It just...
I don't know.
Once you get one thing, you start doing research, and then you start to get another, and when you've been somewhere, someone hears about you, and they offer you something, and then you start... It just starts, you know, going off, and it just takes off, and you can't control it.
What do you hope that... Do you plan to make some provisions to keep the whole collection as a collection?
Well, I never thought of that before, and then when I saved the Booth collection...
God knows why, because, you know, I don't know many people that really would want a booth collection, yet it's a very important part of history.
I don't know.
I don't know what I'd do with it.
So you really haven't given it that much thought.
You're still enjoying... I'm enjoying it.
You're enjoying the formation of it right now.
Because it's almost like of Smithsonian quality, wouldn't you think?
It would be a shame to see it broken up.
But you haven't given that much thought at this point.
No, no.
And it would be like, well, where do you place it?
Do you take... Like, for instance, that should go to Hilding, because that was in Hilding.
No, what are we talking about?
This sculpture here that Todd Lincoln owns.
There are certain pieces that immediately off the top of my head I would say...
should go broken up.
Yeah, but the manuscripts and the letters.
I don't know what I'll deal with them.
Because that is an extraordinary collection.
I mean, it is, I think.
Do you see all this as one collection or do you see it as a number of collections?
I see it as a number of collections.
I see it as a Mary Lincoln collection.
I see it as an Abraham Lincoln collection and then the Lincoln family collection.
I see it as a John Wilkes Booth collection and I see it as a Booth family because I have the whole family and so much of it.
That's how I got on the board of the Library of the Players Club.
I feel that a lot of it probably should go there.
That would be the place for that.
But I think the answer is you're enjoying the collection so much now.
You're not ready to think about it.
I know.
My husband, you know, he's in New York now.
There's a sale.
Big sale.
Right.
So I'll have to call you.
If you call me tomorrow night, I'll tell you what I got.
You'll get, well, you hope.
You haven't lost anything yet.
That's a very big sale.
The Columbus letter, the declaration.
So you sent your husband, or your husband went?
Well, he went.
We were both supposed to go.
And I...
The reason we were going was for me to do research at the players.
I have a board meeting, and I was going to do the research for three days.
And then when my brother became ill, there was no way, you know, that I could go.
And my husband was just, as long as the sale was going on, he was going to watch it.
Because we hire other people to bid for us.
And then he decided that there were some major items I wanted.
And he says, if we're going to spend that much money, he wanted to be there and he wanted to bid.
So I said, go, go.
I can't go.
I'll be here.
Ralph Newman will probably be there.
You've gone against him, I'm sure, the fellow from Chicago.
No, I don't go against him.
He's bid for me.
We're friends.
Things I've seen him buy, then he's probably bought for you.
I'm told you used to go to the auctions, though, I guess, in New York.
No, not that many.
No.
I haven't gotten them.
I went to the Boothbay one.
I went to that Chicago one.
I went to the Doheny one just for that.
And the rest of it, I've had people bid.
Other people.
I don't want to overstay our welcome.
Can I just add one?
In talking about Lisa's passion, I want to say a word for her.
She has indefatigable... She's indefatigable.
She will correspond with
everybody any really the smallest person on the face of the earth who has an inquiry she will answer and give everything she knows she is totally generous all the time with everybody and is involved in all these societies helping people do this and that and just having the goodness of her heart because she's i think so in love with everything and people come to her with all kinds of questions from all these societies and it's
Well, you know, you've got to do it because if they don't, our whole heritage is going to be gone.
It really is because all the places that no one has any money, none of the libraries, no one can keep anything.
So whenever I buy archival material, if they can't afford it, I'll say, well, tell me what you need.
I'll send it to you.
I'll give you money.
I give them money.
I support all of them because I really feel...
whether they were traitors in history, it's a part of history.
And we need to preserve this as a lesson to our country.
Are you a Californian, native Californian?
Born and raised.
Were you always interested in history?
Or again, does this begin when you read that novel?
I was always curious and I always loved to go to historical places.
I guess I always liked
the times of the civil war and you know that time and earlier but yeah i do answer all these people and i really get the most i sit up late at 12 30 at night or sunday when everyone's quiet sleeping late i'm up at six and i come in here and quietly write to them and but it's nice because you know they really appreciate it
Is your children still young?
No, my son's in his second year of law school at Loyola, and my daughter's going to be, by the end of the summer, graduating from the Chicago Art Institute.
Congratulations.
And she made that Lincoln quilt.
Did she make it?
I looked at mine.
She made it.
Did they share your interest in the cashmere?
They hated it for a while.
And then now they like it because everything is
they like it now because they've met great people and a lot of the springfield people come here and stay with us and and in springfield my whole life is different i live in this little apartment and do my own i don't cook that much we go out to eat a lot but clean it myself and and live real modestly just like everyone out there you know it's a poor little town and you can't you know wear rubby clothes and you know then when they came here they it was like oh my god you know i never talked about
how I lived or anything, and now they, you know, all come when they get a vacation time.
You talk about it, you think there's so much joy and pleasure, and you give so much pleasure to other people.
Well, because the people that helped me, I feel I was fortunate, so maybe one of these obscure people that have written to me will become me.
Because when I went to do research in Springfield for Wohlberg, I was the low man in the totem pole, and they said, little did they know
18 years later, I was the one that could buy them all out and buy all the things that they had.
So they said everyone ignored you when you were the little one.
So it's a lesson in life.
You don't ignore anyone.
You can't.
Have you cataloged the whole collection?
We're working on that now.
You might want to publish your catalog at some point.
I buy at such a rapid pace.
that I couldn't do that yet, because we just, you know, every, every, sometimes we're buying something every day.
Every week, for sure, right?
So this is, this is a growing collection.
Oh.
The end is not in sight?
No, not at the end.
Are you kidding?
I got another, are you kidding?
It just, again, another, what, 25 years.
No, but I mean, in terms of, I suppose this kind of collection could never be complete, really.
Well, you can't buy every book.
You don't want every book.
It's like, I don't know, 10,000 books.
You know, you can't read them all.
Who wants them all?
But this is not a book collection fundamentally.
It's a manuscript collection.
Right.
The strength, I mean, its mark will be made in the manuscript material, the unique material.
And the artifacts.
Right.
And photographs.
I have other, oh, I've signed Lincoln photographs I didn't show you.
Very rare.
It's just so much.
I noticed you mentioned Brady's photo box out there.
Do you have Brady's stuff?
No, that was just something when I was looking at a catalog and the dealer, not Ralph, another dealer was bidding for me.
I just said, gee, if you could get that, I'd take that, too.
You didn't bid for the, what was that, pen and ink thing last, at Christie's?
The Penn case, it went for $130,000.
No, it went for $77,000.
Whatever it was, the estimate was... I went a little bit, didn't really want it.
It was three, I was there, it was three telephone bidders.
So nobody knew who... Mine was one, and another friend of mine was the other one.
But it went, it went, you know, people started to chuckle at, who is this?
Because it wasn't Lincoln's.
The whole thing was crazy.
Yeah, I mean, it wasn't listens.
It was just a vague association type of a piece, I guess.
But you get things like that with certain people that don't know what they're buying or what they're doing.
Then you get dealers that'll bid you up.
If you go to an auction, they get angry.
Or people that get antagonized.
That's why I stay away.
So here we are on the eve of an important sale.
Are you excited?
Is there a sense of anticipation?
Is there something really...
No, because I've been under such pressure and everything with my brother that I called my husband just before you came.
You know, because you got several calls.
I almost canceled.
I know that.
I got the message.
And I called my husband crying and I said, why are you at this stupid sale?
Come home.
You know, I just can't handle anything anymore.
And I was like falling apart.
And he said, you know, he said, in a couple of years from now, you'll yell at me that I came home and didn't get you what you wanted.
and i love you i'm staying here and you're going to get what you want that's nice because what when it was our anniversary and mother's day and birthday coming up and everything i said don't give me anything i don't need anything wait until like there's a certain piece that i might really want and put it all together so we'll see he does share your enthusiasm for the oh he's every party goes everywhere with me he's known as the collector too
I think, you know, we've... I'm sorry, Albert, I'm boring you.
I've talked about this stuff forever, but you've given so generously of your time, and I know you have other thoughts.
But I've seen it now, and now I can call and we can talk some more, too.
Okay?
Because I think it's going to take a little more, but we've seen.
The knowledge, and you can't do it, and you can just read.
There's a lot of people out there that are doing that.
So then all of a sudden when you're able to buy something and you can do it, it's not only that you can buy it and you meet the right people and they really want it in a good collection.
We're going to go home.
It's taken well care of.
You know, I came to meet to talk to Schwartz at Springfield.
Did he tell you how this, well, I got this book, The Lincoln Collector by Sandberg.
And I just,
And, of course, you read this.
This is a great collection, and he couldn't have done his biography without this.
And I said, geez, I wonder where this collection went.
If it was so great, it must be someplace.
So I was calling.
I called this fellow at the Newbury Library, who I interviewed last year.
And he said, geez, good question.
Carl Schwartz, down his wrinkle, he said, scattered to the four winds.
He said, broken up.
And he said, I guess it wasn't all that.
I guess it was pretty good.
But if it was so good, why didn't it stay together, you know?
He put it up for sale.
There were a lot of good collections that people just sold it.
The Sang collection went up for sale and everything was divided up.
Justin Turner needed money.
He sold his.
I am told that there's a lot of people that when they need money, that's the first thing, I guess, to go.
I don't know.
This stuff does not decrease in value.
No.
I mean, Lincoln is always going to be Lincoln.
I mean, it's not like...
Yeah, it's sad that Barrett did that.
You know, he's buried near the Lincoln tomb.
And he was obsessed.
When I read the book, and you see what he did, and how he competed with people, and how he went about getting things, I felt, God, that's just like me.
I'm doing that now.
And it's harder as a woman.
Well, you know, this is a question I should say, harder as a woman.
I mean, you're aware, of course, that there really are not that many...
women who are collectors.
And I don't know why that is, but it's a fact.
And so you really are one of the great collectors.
Yeah, I've taken a lot of beating about it.
Really?
Yes.
When people that were friends with my husband, after we were married maybe three years, and I had a lot of my Lincoln things up, and then things we acquired together, and they came in and they said to Barry, gee, I didn't know you collected Lincoln.
It was like, oh, well, bimbo over there.
I said, wait a minute.
I'm the collector.
Oh, gee, I didn't know.
And a lot of his tennis friends, they always looked to me like I was just, you know, because he's older than me.
And that just some empty-headed whatever until one day my husband missed a game.
And they said, where were you?
And he says, oh, we went to buy these John Wilkes Booth letters.
Oh, you have to just hear this one thing and then I'll let you go.
You'll love this.
Beverly Hills Tennis Club.
Misses the game.
And the guy says, why weren't you here last week?
And he says, well, my wife with these John Wilkes Booth.
And they said, what?
And he's telling them what I do.
This guy shows up the following game and he shows my husband this little black box and opens it up.
It's a Lincoln pardon written on a bandage.
It is so rare I have it.
Well, but Barry brings it home and I look and I said, well, so what?
What does he want?
Is he just showing it?
It belongs to a client.
The client had it for 20 years.
It's been in this man as an attorney.
It was in his vault for 20 years.
I called the man up and I said, I have to have it.
And he says, well, the woman's not going to sell it.
It's been for 20 years.
I said, let her name a price.
He says, you don't understand.
She's very, very wealthy.
I said, well, then you tell her this.
If money is no object, she should still name a price, and it's cruel of her to keep this from history because people should know he has never written a pardon on a bandage.
And so he told her, and she sold it to me.
So she did name a price?
She named a price.
I got it.
I immediately took it to Springfield so they could photograph it and know about it.
Did you authenticate it before you brought it?
I knew it.
I know Lincoln inside and out.
People come to me, is this Lincoln?
No question about it.
Tom Schwartz looked at it, and oh, absolutely, they loved it.
So they have it photographed for them.
Have you researched it at all, how it came to life?
Yes, this was another thing.
He didn't mention the name of the boy.
What we know is that he, Mary Lincoln, went to one of the hospitals at the time in Washington and would take flowers and flower seeds to the soldiers.
And this is one time he went with them.
And probably this boy was dying and he wanted to pardon him and just, there was no paper.
And he would write on anything.
So he picked up this piece of bandage and wrote on it.
Let this boy be pardoned for any disloyalty or, I forget, and it's dated.
So then I started to research and I called, there's a number you can call for military civil war research.
And this girl says, well, who's it to?
And I said, there isn't a name.
So she said, listen, lady.
And she says, I don't care if it's written on a sock.
If it doesn't have his name, we can't help you.
I was so angry.
I said, well, you listen.
If it was written on a sock, it'd be more valuable than the band did when I hung up on her.
But I get this all the time.
You know, you're a woman and you don't know anything.
And I had trouble getting in the players club.
to do research.
The curator.
We're best friends now.
I'm on the board now.
He wouldn't let me in.
And when he met me, I said, give me five minutes.
I used every pull I could think of in New York and couldn't get in.
And finally, I phoned him up and I said, I'm demanding.
I'm going to stand on your doorstep.
Please look at me and talk to me.
Give me four minutes of your time.
So he said, oh, all right.
Gave me the time and...
That was it.
We became good friends.
Why wouldn't they?
I mean, you believe it's because you're a woman?
Also, there's Boothies.
There's these Boothies that are very... Boothies.
They're called Boothies, and they love John Wilkes Booth, and they idolize him, and they're obsessed.
John Wilkes Booth?
You mean there are people who idolize John Wilkes Booth?
Idolize as a cult.
Why?
They just... They're Confederates.
The war's still on.
You know what I'm called in the South?
The Booth Lady.
Don't you?
In the north, I'm the Lincoln lady.
In the south, I'm the Booth lady.
Because you collect both.
That's right.
I'm a Gemini.
Are you?
When's your birthday?
May 25th.
June 20th.
That's close.
Next week.
Happy birthday.
Thank you.
So, you know.
But the war is still going on with these people when you go there.
I've heard it's the undertones, but nothing...
Yes, absolutely.
When you talk to them, they don't want to hear a thing about Lincoln in the South, famously, particularly.
They're very racist.
Plus, you know, this Booth was a hero.
And you want to hear the craziest thing?
They are so anti-Semitic.
And I have found that John Wilkes Booth,
is part Jewish.
And they are in my research and it's just, oh, no, no, no, it can't be.
And it absolutely, isn't it?
We've gone over and over.
And they don't want to hear it.
They just, I said, well, you know, it's history.
Who cares?
And you've researched it.
Absolutely.
So Edwin Lufus was, obviously, his brother was part Jewish as well.
It's like way back.
But some of the stories were that when the father was buried,
The tombstone was in Hebrew, and then they replaced it and got rid of it.
Junius, right?
Right.
So there's a lot of, it's just, it's fascinating.
Really, it is.
I think we could be here all day after day.
No, you're not actually keeping us.
You're not one, do you?
Oh, yeah.